In industry, sales, production,
and after-sales service drive inventory
and inventory management requirements.
In government, mission-based requirements
drive inventory and inventory management requirements.
Both industry and government organizations
encounter the need to stock spare parts.
However, the government must forecast and obtain
spares for assets that may have very long lifespans.
While industry does some of this as well,
particularly with automobile and commercial airplane parts,
some companies make the conscious decision
to discontinue spare parts support
to certain end items rather than maintain the inventory.
This can create difficulty for government.
Sometimes companies replace a spare part
designed for a specific end item with a standard spare part,
such as a motor, for example,
that can support many similar end items.
Sometimes the only option available to the consumer
is to purchase a new item.
An example of inventory management in government
includes logistics hospitals maintaining medical supplies
in the primary storage areas.